50pts
intro3
Challenge already completed
Briefing

Playing CTFs is a skill in its own right, challenges require security knowledge taken from various disciplines but they are often more like puzzles than something encountered in the course of your work. No matter how good you are at your discipline you will need practice to recognise the types of challenges presented and know what knowledge is the key to solving those challenges.

This CTF is designed to teach you the skills required to get started playing CTFs. We will start by walking you through the basics and then progress to giving you less information as the challenge tiers progress in difficulty.

It is important to note that most CTFs will be like the harder challenges from this CTF with minimal information or hints provided.

You will need some kind of Linux system. If you do not have one you can get a copy of VMWare Player or Virtualbox and install a Linux distribution inside a Virtual Machine. Do this before you start. There are plenty of resources online that can guide you through this process. We would recommend Ubuntu Desktop for anyone new to Linux.

We'll start with flags.
Introduction

There are several ways challenges can be served in a CTF. Most commonly:

    A website
    A network service
    A file download

In this challenge we will be looking at a network service. Notice the language in the briefing of the challenge below.
Briefing

Access the network service at 1-intro03.bootupctf.com: port: 7903 to get the flag.
Step by Step

In a normal CTF the briefing is usually all you would get. We're going to get you started by guiding you through this challenge.

The most common way to connect to a network service of unidentified network protocol is using a command line tool called 'netcat'. You should have access to a Linux system either natively, through virtualisation, WSL or similar. Simply make sure netcat is installed. On a fresh ubuntu system you can open the terminal and do:

sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade -y
sudo apt install netcat

If your system is already up to date simply sudo apt install netcat will suffice.

You can then connect to the network service using the syntax:

nc [domain] [port].

Once you connect you should be given the flag directly.
